


Newsweek.com
August 1, 2025 Friday 10:50 AM EST


Copyright © 2025 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 710 words
Byline: Lydia Patrick
Highlight: "We were both barely functional. I even wondered if we were having simultaneous heart failure," Debra DeAngelo told Newsweek.
Body


When a couple began feeling unwell, their minds immediately jumped to the worst.
Debra DeAngelo, 66, and Joe DeAngelo, 67, both experienced  twice in the past two years, as well as RSV—a common respiratory virus that can cause serious symptoms in older adults—they suspected the strange wave of fatigue and brain fog washing over them might signal the onset of 
But the truth was far less dire—and much more amusing.
"We were both barely functional. I even wondered if we were having simultaneous heart failure," Debra, an author from California, told Newsweek.
Her Threads post about the debacle quickly gained traction, amassing 121,000 views.
"We're both in our 60s, so bodies become highly irrational in this decade of life and pull unexpected tricks. But at the same time? Hmmmm," she said.
Speaking to Newsweek, DeAngelo said it started on a Friday. Though the morning began normally, by midday both she and her husband were dragging and needed naps. Saturday was worse—they managed a few tasks in the morning, but she fell asleep mid-morning, something she'd only ever done during a bout with COVID.
By Sunday, they felt fully unwell. But not in the typical sense—there was no fever, no cough, no body aches. Just overwhelming exhaustion and a foggy mental state.
Both of them were genuinely concerned. Her husband even made a doctor's appointment, convinced something was terribly wrong.
Then, DeAngelo stumbled on a clue. Going through receipts in her wallet, she found one from the market where they buy whole-bean coffee. "I glanced at the ticket to see what the final extortion rate was for coffee currently," she wrote. "And noticed the receipt said 'Decaf Breakfast Blend.' DECAF. The horror."
Unknowingly, they had been drinking decaffeinated coffee all weekend. The market had reorganized its coffee section, placing the decaf Breakfast Blend in the spot where the regular blend had always been. DeAngelo hadn't seen the small print indicating the switch.
"I couldn't believe I'd made such a mistake. I'd sooner buy used kitty litter than decaf for a morning beverage," she said. Suspicious, she returned to the store—and sure enough, the decaf had taken the prime shelf space once reserved for the fully caffeinated version.
"These people are demons," she joked. "May they end up with used kitty litter in their coffeemakers."
She then had to break the news to her husband—who, believing he was at death's door, was not amused. "Let's just say that I was not his favorite person at that moment," she said.
To set things right, she bought  Breakfast Blend instead, now distrustful of the local market's bin placement. "Amazing—when we got our regular coffee, we stopped dying and life returned to normal," she said.
The Power of Caffeine
DeAngelo's hilarious misadventure struck a chord with many online—especially those who understand the impact of caffeine withdrawal.
 is the most widely consumed psychoactive substance in the world.
When people accustomed to regular doses suddenly stop consuming it, they can experience withdrawal symptoms within 12–24 hours, including headaches, fatigue, irritability, difficulty concentrating, and even flu-like symptoms. These symptoms can last for several days depending on the level of dependence, according to Healthline.
On Threads, others shared similar experiences.
"That's happened to us before! Amazing that coffee hasn't been banned or at least regulated because it has such noticeable impact on well being, energy, etc. As a caffeine addict myself, I have been known to take Excedrin in the am if no coffee is available," said Judith Fuller.
"I once did a cold turkey caffeine detox for a week between jobs. I slept 16+ hours a day between night sleep and naps. My body needed it after surviving on caffeine and adrenaline for months but it was not compatible with being a functioning human," said Charlotte.
"I permanently switched to decaf bc of my reliance on caffeine to just like, function," said Meg Miller.
"Ha! That happened to us on a ski trip. My b in law bought decaf by mistake," said Anne Moore.
Do you have any viral videos or pictures that you want to share? We want to see the best ones! Send them in to  and they could appear on our site.


Graphic

 
Stock image of unwell elderly couple.
Srdjanns74/iStock / Getty Images Plus
A stock image showing a woman offering support to her partner who is under the weather.
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Web Publication

Subject: RSV (90%); WRITERS (70%); RESPIRATORY DISORDERS & INJURIES (90%); ADULTS (72%); VIRUSES (72%); COVID CORONAVIRUS (77%); NEGATIVE PERSONAL NEWS (75%); Life (%)

Industry: COFFEE (69%); WRITERS (70%); COFFEE & TEA STORES (69%)

Geographic: CALIFORNIA, USA (72%)

Load-Date: August 1, 2025


End of Document
