


Axios
March 20, 2026 Friday 10:20 AM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2026 Axios 
Length: 875 words
Byline: Alissa Widman Neese
Body


March 20th, 2026 (   - Delivered by   )
Despite COVID-19 mostly disappearing  
Why it matters: The pandemic was both universal and deeply personal. Discussing our experiences can help us process what happened and learn from it.
Catch up quick: We heard from many of you after publishing a story Wednesday explaining why, as a society, we don't talk about COVID much anymore.
When reflecting on the before-and-after, you described serious hardships: deaths, isolation, health complications, job losses and other major life changes.
And many expressed concerns about how deeply the experience has divided us.
What they're saying: "My wife and I lost friends and relatives to COVID, so grief colors our recollections of that time," reader Ed S. writes.
"I also feel that we lost an opportunity to promote solidarity across the country when we let politicians use the pandemic to turn us against one another."
Between the lines: Responses suggested an underlying tension - balancing a collective urge to move on with a lingering sense that you shouldn't.
Case in point: Many are currently ill or recovering from COVID.
Loretta H. says she's "very fortunate to have survived" after spending six weeks recovering from a recent infection.
By the numbers: The virus has hospitalized over 11,000 Ohioans this season,  
Meanwhile,   
Updated CDC estimates are expected  
The other side: Some readers did share unexpected positives, like more time spent with loved ones, shifting priorities, better jobs and scientific  
"I am happier and healthier, mentally and physically, being employed remotely," writes reader Kate E., who discovered that only after losing her office job.
The bottom line: "Some of my friends look back on the pandemic almost with a sense of nostalgia. They remember it as cozy and quiet and the same thing every day," one reader says.
"I cannot fathom how anyone can look back on this time and feel anything but relief that we've moved on. It was deadly, frightening, disruptive and divisive."
More reader responses
We appreciate everyone who shared personal stories.
Zoom in: We've compiled more of them here to keep the conversation going.
⏪ Looking back:
Jasmine H., a nurse, saw the pandemic firsthand.
"I remember sitting with families while withdrawing life support during the holidays, all while people outside called it a 'hoax.'"
"It changed how I view collective empathy. It was sobering to see 'preparedness' discarded for political identity."
She also said it exposed our country's need for better "health literacy."
Malissa H. was pregnant.
She took time off work to stay safe and care for her two young daughters.
"Even though the world felt chaotic and uncertain, I found comfort in being home safely with my family."
Cara S., a music teacher, pivoted to online classes.
Her district "got computers to every family and free internet routers to every family in need. A community came together in ways nobody envisioned."
"I became much more proficient with technology and continue to use more of it in my current classroom."
Nathan T., an OSU senior, hunkered down.
"It seems wrong or misplaced, but nowadays I have found myself somewhat nostalgic for the opening few months of the pandemic."
He and his roommates played video games, had " 
"What else do you do when you are 23 and it feels like the world is ending?"
Melanie M., a communications specialist, kept busy.
Her company sent out messages every Friday to thousands of employees, so they "knew what to expect in a constantly changing landscape."
"The work, I regret to say, was a boon to my career."
Melanie S. was shocked by the mask backlash.
"That, in my opinion, was when the tearing apart of communities really started. 'Help your fellow man' wasn't the main part of the community anymore."
Beverly L. admits it wasn't all bad.
"It was nice working at home with my husband and daughter and slowing the pace of life."
⏩ Looking forward:
Tara G. has long COVID.
"I lost 30 years of memories and learned job skills and today remain unable to live as I once did."
"I am grateful to still be working from home - many of my fellow long-haulers are unemployed."
Doug E. is concerned about misinformation.
It "leaves us open to a catastrophic pandemic in the future and to a resurgence of diseases and is so sad for the front-line health workers."
Stephanie L., says "I'm the only one who talks about it anymore."
"I saw the good in humanity at the beginning, and now people think this was all a conspiracy and are anti-science."
Christina D. fears "we've lost most of the good things we learned."
That includes "actually trying to not get ourselves and others sick, to including vulnerable and disabled people in everyday life."
"The pandemic never 'ended' for many of us, and watching people hurt themselves in a desperate quest for 'normalcy' is an experience I wouldn't wish on anyone."


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Classification


Language: English

Publication-Type: Web Publication

Journal Code: 10009544

Subject:  COVID CORONAVIRUS (92%);  EPIDEMICS (90%);  PUBLIC HEALTH (90%);  COVID-19 CORONAVIRUS (90%);  PANDEMICS (89%);  INFECTIOUS DISEASE (89%);  DEATH & DYING (75%);  GRIEF (74%);  LAYOFFS & DISMISSALS (69%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (69%); ELECTIONS & POLITICS (68%); LAYOFFS & DISMISSALS (70%); DEATH & DYING (76%); COVID-19 CORONAVIRUS (90%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (77%); EPIDEMICS (90%); GRIEF (75%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (71%); PUBLIC HEALTH (90%); FAMILY (75%); COVID CORONAVIRUS (96%); PANDEMICS (90%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (93%)

Load-Date: April 22, 2026


End of Document
