


The New York Times
April 19, 2026 Sunday
Late Edition - Final


Copyright 2026 The New York Times Company
Section: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; Pg. 6; GUEST ESSAY
Length: 3461 words
Byline: By Julia Belluz
Body


In November 2017, on a bike ride to pick up her daughters from day care in Portland, Ore., Laurel Schmidt was hit by a car and tossed headfirst over her handlebars. She walked away with a bruised elbow and a headache that, over the next few days, became excruciating. She was in her mid-30s at the time. Her suffering didn't meaningfully abate for nearly 10 years. 
  Ms. Schmidt was diagnosed with a traumatic brain injury and severe postconcussion syndrome with no cure. Frequently dizzy, with her vision impaired and her memory faltering, she felt as if she were living inside a snow globe, she said, constantly ''shaken up.''
  She no longer trusted herself to cook, out of fear she'd forget to turn off the stove. She stopped driving after she noticed she couldn't register traffic light changes quickly enough. Most days, she'd hide away in a dark room, seeing her children for only short periods of time.
  That was until early 2025, when Ms. Schmidt discovered animal and cell research demonstrating that GLP-1s, the class of medicines that includes Ozempic and Wegovy, could treat concussions. She tracked down several researchers involved in the studies, including the Indiana University chemist Richard DiMarchi. He suggested that she ask her doctor about trying a GLP-1 drug off-label, a common practice in which a medication is prescribed for a use that's not yet formally approved.
  Within days of starting on Zepbound in February 2025, Ms. Schmidt felt her concussion symptoms finally begin to ease. A former endurance athlete and a methodical tracker of all things, she used the Post-Concussion Symptom Scale to assess the severity of her condition. In the weeks after the crash, she scored over 100 out of a possible 132, indicating extreme impairment. When I talked to her last autumn, she scored 6.
  On Thanksgiving she ran a turkey trot with her daughters -- her first race since the accident. She described the turnaround to me as ''miraculous.'' Like so many other people who are taking these drugs for intractable and varied symptoms, Ms. Schmidt had joined what we might call the great American GLP-1 experiment.
  Technology moves fast, while science accumulates slowly. Humans have a history of rushing ahead with new technology, well before understanding how it affects us. (Just think of smartphones and ultraprocessed foods.) Still, GLP-1s may be a medical first: a blockbuster drug class, enthusiastically taken up by millions of people not for one or a few uses but, it appears, a multitude.
  They're also the first blockbuster drugs to collide with our wellness-obsessed algorithmic age. People online extol microdosing GLP-1s for longevity; subreddits swap stories about using the medicines for menopause symptoms; fitness influencers promote unapproved formulations for bodybuilding.
  So much of the experimentation with GLP-1s is happening outside traditional research models, careful clinical trials and even the health system. Given the immense popularity of these drugs, regulators and the medical establishment need urgently to figure out how to best capture and keep pace with the experiment. Otherwise it risks spinning out of control.
  In the past year, I've been talking to GLP-1 patients, as well as researchers and physicians, who are using or prescribing the drugs for an astounding range of diseases and conditions. Many report success: Debilitating long Covid symptoms dissolved. Decades of uncomfortable bouts of irritable bowel syndrome relieved. Patients said that the drugs loosened the grip of their addictions to drugs, cigarettes, alcohol and sex. Still others reported cognitive benefits like decreased anxiety and brain fog and improved focus.
  The tenor of these stories surprised me. Times Opinion asked the polling company Morning Consult to survey over 2,000 adults who have used GLP-1s. Before getting the results, I suspected that the reality of taking the drugs would be messier than the triumphalist headlines. The drugs can have unsavory side effects, most frequently nausea. Many people stop taking them because of those side effects and, perhaps even more so, cost and insurance barriers.
  But the survey respondents were enthusiastic. Sixty-five percent of current or past GLP-1 users said they were ''very interested'' in continuing to take the drugs. More remarkably, 63 percent said that if their GLP-1 failed to help the condition it was initially prescribed to treat, they would either ''definitely'' or ''probably'' keep taking it for other benefits.
  The poll results have limitations, as the answers are self-reported. But directionally, they suggested that people are finding relief where they hadn't even been looking.
  The more patients and physicians I've spoken to about this phenomenon, the clearer it has become: We are only at the beginning of the Ozempic era, but it is already shaping our culture and changing how disease is understood and treated. An estimated one in eight people in the United States alone has taken GLP-1s, placing the drugs among the most widely prescribed in the country right now. A significant number of those people are experimenting with off-label uses like Ms. Schmidt or remaining on the drugs for unexpected benefits.
  This experimentation is also driven by how the drugs seem to cut across the familiar borders of illness in ways that doctors hadn't seen. ''What we've come to realize,'' said Dr. DiMarchi, who was a vice president at Eli Lilly and involved in GLP-1 research there, until he left the company in 2003, ''is that many diseases may share the same root causes, even though we label them and treat them as distinct: This is an endocrine disease, this is a cardiovascular disease, this is a brain disease.''
  This root-cause theory suggests that a wide range of conditions can be treatable with one drug class, sometimes through pathways in the brain and the immune system. But, Dr. DiMarchi added, ''what we know right now is small relative to what we don't know.''
  When GLP-1 medicines exploded onto the market for weight loss, experts offered a simple theory for how the drugs worked: They act as a souped-up version of a natural gut hormone, called GLP-1, which signals satiety. The idea was that the drugs mimic the body's own hormonal signal, but more forcefully, making people feel fuller faster, eat less and ultimately lose weight. ''And it's just not true,'' said Dr. Randy Seeley, a GLP-1 researcher and the director of the University of Michigan's Nutrition Obesity Research Center.
  The GLP-1 hormone that our bodies produce -- mostly in the gut and brain and, to a lesser extent, in the pancreas -- ''does almost nothing important physiologically,'' said Dr. Daniel Drucker, a researcher based at Toronto's Lunenfeld-Tanenbaum Research Institute, whose GLP-1 discoveries helped lay the foundation for today's drugs. GLP-1 is among hundreds of chemical signals circulating in the body -- part of the chorus that shapes our physiology and behavior, rather than a lead star.
  What makes GLP-1 drugs so powerful is how the hormone behaves when given as medicine. GLP-1 receptors are found all over the body, and when people receive much higher, longer-lasting doses than humans produce naturally, a wide range of benefits surface.
  In the case of obesity, the weight loss effects don't come from the gut but originate in the brain. The brain has its own GLP-1 signaling system, which helps guide appetite in ways researchers are still just beginning to unravel. ''The importance of native brain GLP-1 is still a bit of a mystery,'' said Dr. Drucker, who, like Dr. Seeley, consults for GLP-1 drugmakers. Natural GLP-1 in the brain doesn't seem to affect appetite much. When artificially raised, however, the brain's GLP-1 system powerfully blunts the urge to eat.
  Researchers discovered the weight loss effects of GLP-1s serendipitously. GLP-1 medicines were first approved for treating Type 2 diabetes, a disease in which the body can't properly use or doesn't make enough insulin to control blood glucose levels, in 2005. As clinicians tried higher doses in clinical trials for diabetes, they began to notice patients spontaneously losing weight.
  Unexpected benefits for kidney and liver disease turned up in the diabetes trials, too. The Food and Drug Administration requires drug companies to run studies investigating whether GLP-1s increase the risk of cardiovascular problems -- a mandate for all diabetes drugs. These studies have shown a 20 percent reduction in heart attacks, strokes and death from cardiovascular problems. GLP-1s are now being prescribed for patients with conditions such as heart disease, sleep apnea and advanced fatty liver disease. Clinical trials are testing different uses of the medications for everything from treating arthritis to improving survival outcomes for cancer patients.
  Part of this was predictable. Weight loss has long been known to enhance overall health and reduce the risk of everything from certain cancers to diabetes and cardiovascular problems. Since the drugs help people lose weight, it wasn't surprising that they would deliver additional health gains.
  ''But what surprises everyone is how many benefits are weight independent,'' said Dr. Seeley. In recent studies, the health gains for cardiovascular, liver and kidney disease, for example, happen regardless of whether patients lose weight.
  Explaining why GLP-1 drugs improve health without weight loss defies simple narratives and confounds researchers. I've never come across another medical story in which scientists repeatedly apologize for how bewildering their results appear to be. For each one of the effects they dig into, they come to different explanations for how the drugs help. In some cases, GLP-1s seem to target the organs involved in diseases directly, making them healthier. In other cases, the drugs help the body handle blood sugar and fat, making people ''more metabolically flexible'' and ''biochemically more youthful,'' said Dr. DiMarchi.
  One of the most mysterious and fascinating ways they work is through reducing inflammation. Inflammation is part of the body's natural response to injury and infection. It can signal healing, but it can also be present and harmful in the context of chronic disease. Dr. Drucker's lab at the University of Toronto has pivoted from studying chronic diseases like diabetes and obesity to unraveling the immune system effects of GLP-1s. ''We realized very quickly one underlying theme of all these was inflammation,'' he said, of the diseases.
  Before GLP-1s, medicines that targeted inflammation -- like steroids -- worked by shutting it down, suppressing the immune system and making patients more vulnerable to infections and cancer. The effects of GLP-1s appear to be more subtle. Researchers told me they believe the drugs ''dampen'' or ''fine-tune'' the immune response, without the ''sledgehammer'' effect of steroids. One called this a new frontier in medicine.
  Dr. Drucker has found that the cells in the gut that produce GLP-1 seem to detect pathogens, releasing the hormone as part of the body's response to injury or infection. The drugs may harness that effect. But even the anti-inflammatory narrative of how GLP-1 drugs work is complicated, depending on the type and location of inflammation involved. ''We should not assume, as many do, that there is one simple way the drugs lower inflammation in all organs and conditions,'' Dr. Drucker said.
  In Ms. Schmidt's case, Dr. DiMarchi suspects that the GLP-1 might have reduced damaging inflammation in her brain from her postconcussion syndrome, which played a role in her turnaround. ''There's incredible promise here,'' said Dr. DiMarchi, who thinks there should be human trials testing GLP-1s for concussions. ''But let's not get ahead of ourselves.''
  The momentum may be hard to rein in. Things are moving especially fast, and pill versions of GLP-1 drugs are now on the market. Patients, doctors and researchers are making observations about a range of new potential uses. Some of these benefits may eventually pan out in clinical trials, but others won't.
  There already have been notable disappointments and claims that the drugs caused serious side effects. There are numerous lawsuits from people against companies, blaming their GLP-1s for health complications like serious stomach problems and alleging that they weren't properly warned of potential risks.
  In November 2025, the drugmaker Novo Nordisk announced that two large and much anticipated studies failed to find any benefit for its GLP-1 medicine in patients with early stage Alzheimer's disease. Studies of Parkinson's disease and cognitive impairment in major depression have also fallen short. It could be that researchers just haven't figured out the right doses, protocols or combinations of GLP-1-based molecules. Or it could be that the drugs won't work well enough for these conditions.
  Even the most riveting stories people have shared of their experiences suggesting that GLP-1s can curb addiction gave many of the researchers I interviewed pause. The trials to date have been mixed, and some experts wondered if the effects people initially reported will persist.
  Dr. Drucker said he gets emails almost every day from patients about how GLP-1s treated their addictions or caused miraculous turnarounds like Ms. Schmidt's. He doesn't doubt that the cases are real. They've even spurred new research directions in his lab, such as studies focused on arthritis. ''The question I always have is if I treated 100 people with concussion or 100 people with long Covid, would the response rate be 35 to 40 percent, in which case, wow, this is really useful as a medicine, or 3 percent?''
  Health institutions must figure out how to harness the data the great GLP-1 experiment is yielding. Publicly funded research agencies like the National Institutes of Health could play an important role by rapidly investigating the most promising uses of GLP-1 drugs, particularly in areas where pharmaceutical companies may be reluctant to invest, such as traumatic brain injury, for which trials are difficult to run. If done well, more people might find life-altering relief, and others could be spared harm.
  Right now, the potential for injury and misuse is high. Many people report getting GLP-1s through online telemedicine companies, where a doctor is required to evaluate and prescribe the drug, but barriers to entry can be too low. The telehealth company Hims, which has sold branded and compounded GLP-1s, recently announced plans to offer a cheaper pill form of the GLP-1. The company quickly had to backpedal amid legal action from Novo Nordisk.
  ''There's just so much medicine happening outside of the actual medical system,'' said Dr. Beverly Tchang, an assistant professor of clinical medicine at Weill Cornell, who works as an adviser for the telehealth company Ro. ''It's happening within these telehealth companies, within the internet, over the gray market, and no one has any insight into it.''
  Meanwhile, insurance barriers have helped fuel markets for unregulated GLP-1s, including for cheaper compounded versions of the drugs (medications that are custom mixed to mimic brand-name drugs). The patients who could most benefit from GLP-1s for obesity and diabetes -- among low-income, structurally disadvantaged groups in whom diet-related diseases are concentrated -- often can't get access to them. The medication is largely not covered by insurance for anything but approved uses. And even among the insured, gaining coverage for weight loss remains challenging. One patient I spoke to had been using compounded GLP-1s to manage her lupus symptoms because of cost issues and was increasing her dose without consulting her doctor whenever she felt its effects plateau.
  The case for cost savings to the public purse is also murky. For diabetes and obesity, the benefits of GLP-1s depend on long-term use. When people stop taking the medication, their weight -- and health risks -- oftentimes rebounds. Given the scale of current spending on these drugs, that relapse can feel like money thrown away.
  While we await better data and guardrails, there will be more GLP-1 mass improvisation. The Trump administration has worked with drug companies to lower the cost of GLP-1 medicines. The patent for semaglutide, a type of GLP-1 drug, is expiring in several countries, including Canada. As more GLP-1s are offered in oral form and generic competition production ramps up, global use of the drugs is expected to surge.
  I asked Drs. Seeley and Drucker if, given the drugs' anti-inflammatory effects and the range of positive research outcomes, we should all be on GLP-1s. The answer was an unambiguous no. ''I'm not a GLP-1-in-the-drinking-water kind of guy,'' Dr. Drucker said.
  A lot of what we know about the drugs so far comes from data in people with diabetes and obesity, Dr. Seeley pointed out, not healthy people trying to do things like manage menopause symptoms or microdose to extend their life spans. Much of the long-term safety data also comes from early versions of the drugs. Newer formulations that target multiple GLP-1 receptors are gaining widespread fervor online and may be even more effective for issues like weight loss, but we have limited data on their long-term risks and benefits. Even when patients consult their doctors, as Ms. Schmidt did, clinicians may struggle to navigate risks for novel uses amid so many unknowns.
  Dr. Seeley imagined a hypothetical patient with obesity who is diagnosed with breast cancer. Obesity increases the risk of cancer recurrence, so GLP-1s could lower her risk. But if the drug is anti-inflammatory and she's on a cancer medication that targets her immune system, he wondered, ''is that going to interfere with her therapy?'' No one knows.
  But the fact that so many people are already on GLP-1s for such a broad variety of reasons, with potentially millions more rapidly joining the fold, suggests that ''we cannot clinical trial our way out,'' Dr. Seeley said, referring to carefully testing every potential indication before it is enthusiastically taken up.
  Social media is already buzzing with people sharing their successes on retatrutide, a weight loss drug still under study that targets GLP-1 and two other hormone receptors. Reta, as it's known on the internet, appears to produce even greater weight loss than the F.D.A.-approved GLP-1s. Health optimizers are buying up unregulated versions of it online.
  These leanmaxxing or bodybuilding TikTokers and Redditors post remarkable before-and-after photos and videos about how to dose and administer injections or supplement retatrutide with other compounds. Some urge their followers to send them private messages for links to their legally questionable sources. The podcaster Andrew Huberman has called retatrutide the ''trillion-dollar drug'' that's going to ''change everything.''
  So much has changed already. Basic science and careful clinical trials gave us what appears to be, for many, a wonder drug. Yet we don't have the systems and structures in place to understand how it's really being used and who could most benefit while protecting others from risk. Our traditional regulatory and health systems weren't built for this kind of experimentation outside the medical system.
  Finding ways to better study GLP-1 users going it alone is a place to start. Many of the patients I spoke to were eager to understand their results, including Ms. Schmidt. Traumatic brain injuries can shorten life spans, she told me, and increase the risk of dementia. When she started documenting her symptoms, she said it was ''in the hopes that someone someday would study this more.'' For now, she wasn't sure why the medication worked for her or how long she would take it. She just hoped for a long and healthy life. ''What does the future look like? I don't know.''
  Julia Belluz is a contributing Opinion writer and an author of the book ''Food Intelligence.''
  Additional reporting by Tenzin D. Tsagong. Interviews have been edited and condensed for length and clarity. Production by Sara Chodosh.
  Photo illustrations by Bobby Doherty. Graphic illustrations by Kari Modén. Portraits, in order of appearance, by Jimena Peck, Miraj Patel, Jesse Rieser, Kelly Burgess, Shawn Brackbill, Kyle Myles, Kannetha Brown, Ariana Gomez and Lissa Gotwals, all for The New York Times.
  The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We'd like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: 
  Follow the New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Instagram, TikTok, Bluesky, WhatsApp and Threads.



Graphic

 
PHOTOS: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY BOBBY DOHERTY.)
 Patients taking GLP-1s are broadening our understanding of what these drugs can do, but the drugs aren't a panacea for everyone. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FROM BOTTOM LEFT, BY JIMENA PECK, MIRAJ PATEL, JESSE RIESER, KANNETHA BROWN, KYLE MYLES, SHAWN BRACKBILL, ARIANA GOMEZ AND KELLY BURGESS, ALL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES.) (SR6-SR7) This article appeared in print on page SR6, SR7.               
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Document-Type: Op-Ed

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject:  BRAIN INJURIES (90%);  GLP-1 DRUGS (90%);  CONCUSSIONS (90%);  TECHNOLOGY (84%);  PHYSICAL FITNESS (78%);  WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%);  SPORTS INJURIES (77%);  CONTUSIONS (77%);  HEADACHES (77%);  PHYSICAL TRAUMA (76%);  BRAIN (71%);  OFF LABEL DRUG USE (71%);  MENOPAUSE (71%);  LIFE EXPECTANCY (70%);  VISION IMPAIRMENTS (70%);  MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (67%);  PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (66%);  SMART TECHNOLOGY (64%);  WEIGHTLIFTING (64%);  THANKSGIVING (62%); CONCUSSIONS (90%); SPORTS INJURIES (77%); BRAIN (71%); TECHNOLOGY (84%); MENOPAUSE (71%); PHYSICAL TRAUMA (76%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (70%); GLP-1 DRUGS (90%); VISION IMPAIRMENTS (70%); THANKSGIVING (62%); HEADACHES (77%); BRAIN INJURIES (90%); SMART TECHNOLOGY (64%); PHYSICAL FITNESS (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); WEIGHTLIFTING (64%); CONTUSIONS (77%); OFF LABEL DRUG USE (71%)

Organization: INDIANA UNIVERSITY (55%)

Industry: PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (66%); GLP-1 DRUGS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (67%); SMART TECHNOLOGY (64%); OFF LABEL DRUG USE (71%)

Geographic:  PORTLAND, OR, USA (73%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (73%);  OREGON, USA (90%); OREGON, USA (90%);  UNITED STATES (90%); UNITED STATES (66%)

Load-Date: April 19, 2026


End of Document
