


Fox News JESSE WATTERS PRIMETIME 8:00 PM EST
August 27, 2025 Wednesday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 6517 words
Byline: Jesse Watters, Clay Travis
Guests: Jamie Reed, Sage Steele, Jordan Belfort, Lydia Moynihan
Body


LAURA INGRAHAM, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST, "THE INGRAHAM ANGLE": Goodness. Well, Kevin, I'm glad you took time out of your schedule because you've been overwhelmed by the Taylor Swift-Travis Kelce engagement news. I mean, you -- I knew it was hard for you to kind of gather your senses tonight, but --
KEVIN CORKE, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CORRESPONDENT: Yes, so much to think about.
INGRAHAM: I hope you're processing it all, so --
CORKE: Hey, Laura, one word "prenup."
INGRAHAM: Okay, I think it's great. I think it's great. And Vegas has all sorts of side bets on this thing going on.
Kevin, thank you so much. Jesse is up next.
JESSE WATTERS, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST, "JESSE WATTERS PRIMETIME": Welcome to JESSE WATTERS PRIMETIME.
Tonight --
WESTON HALSNE, FIFTH GRADER: We just got into the pews and he shot through the stained glass windows. It was super scary.
WATTERS: A Trump-hating trans shooter slaughters children in a church.
MAYOR JACOB FREY (D), MINNEAPOLIS: I have heard about a whole lot of hate that's being directed at our trans community.
DONALD TRUMP (R), PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA: He's a nice guy. Looks good. Hi, everybody. How are you doing? He's got some strange hand action going. I don't know what the hell his problem is. It's a little weird, to be honest. A little something shaky going on there.
WATTERS: The Democratic Party's occupied territory.
REVEREND LEAH D. DAUGHTRY, PASTOR, HOUSE OF THE LORD CHURCH IN WASHINGTON, D.C.: How long, oh Lord, how long?
MAYOR MURIEL BOWSER (D), WASHINGTON, D.C.: We greatly appreciate the surge of officers that enhance what MPD has been able to do in this city.
WATTERS: Oh! Look who's coming around.
Plus --
MARK NORMAND, "WE MIGHT BE DRUNK PODCAST" HOST: So you worked for Ellen?
GREG FITZSIMMONS, A COMEDIAN, WRITER AND ACTOR: She was rough. She was the C-word.
WATTERS: Fox News Alert: Tragedy in Minneapolis after a shooter opened fire during a morning mass at a Catholic grammar school. Two children killed, eight and 10 years old, and 17 others were rushed to the hospital, fourteen of them were children, but police say they're all expected to make it, thankfully.
K to 8 students were marking the first week of school when bullets started blasting through the windows of the church.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BRIAN O'HARA, MINNEAPOLIS POLICE CHIEF: During the mass, a gunman approached on the outside, on the side of the building and began firing a rifle through the church windows towards the children sitting in the pews at the mass.
Shooting through the windows, he struck children and worshipers that were inside the building. The shooter was armed with a rifle, a shotgun and a pistol. This was a deliberate act of violence against innocent children.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Students were ducking for cover as round after round pierced through the pews. One 10-year-old said his friend saved his life.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
HALSNE: We just got into mass. It was like three minutes after. It was very scary. It was like, my friend got shot in the back. He was like, laying on top of me, like, making sure I was safe, and he got hit. So that was really brave of him.
REPORTER: And you have a nick on your neck?
HALSNE: Yes, that was -- I don't even know where it's from. It kind of looks like debris or something.
REPORTER: But that came from during this?
HALSNE: Yes.
REPORTER: How are you feeling? You seem pretty put together here, but it's got to be tough.
HALSNE: Yes, I'm just like, confused kind of because I never thought it would happen.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: This should never have happened. But how did it?
The shooter was identified as 23-year-old Robin Westman. Robin changed his name from Robert back in 2019 when he was a minor. His mother submitted the name change on his behalf.
The court documents say the minor child identifies as female, and wanted her name to reflect the identification. So Robert changes his name to Robin and mows down pews of kids at a Catholic school church, and then offs himself in the parking lot.
And it wasn't just a random church. His mother used to work there. CNN reports, Westman actually graduated from there in 2017, and this morning, he showed up with a rifle, shotgun and pistol.
Hours before the shooting, Westman posted a 20-minute video where he paged through a manifesto described himself as severely depressed and suicidal. He fantasized about the Sandy Hook massacre, and said he loves to see kids get shot.
The morning shooting was obviously premeditated because there was a drawing of the floor plans in his notebook. The video also shows Jesus' face as target practice. Westman wrote things on his weapons, such as, "Where is your God?" "Israel must fall." "Nuke India," "Suck on this" and "Kill Donald Trump."
The FBI is investigating this as an act of domestic terror and a hate crime targeting Catholics, but police say they don't know anything.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
O'HARA: We don't have a motive at this time, obviously, we're open to any possibilities at all, but we don't have a motive.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: The media says the motive doesn't matter, it is the gun's fault.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MSNBC HOST: I think it's either like you have to be honest and say what will actually work, which is what nobody wants to hear, which is that there are just simply way too many firearms, and there are way too accessible and even if they are --
MSNBC HOST: And they are too powerful.
MSNBC HOST: And they're too powerful, even handguns too.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: So a suicidal transgender who hates Trump, Christians and Jews shoots up kids in a Catholic school and the media wants to take away your handgun. So how are we supposed to protect ourselves from trans shooters?
The media is bad at pattern recognition. We aren't.
Just two years ago, another trans 20-something walked into a Christian school in Nashville with a rifle and shot three kids and three adults. They buried the manifesto and locked down the case.
We've seen trans shootings in Colorado and in Maryland. They even shot up an ICE facility in Texas. And it seems like half of Antifa is trans, a couple of they/thems just got popped for firebombing Teslas.
The mayor of Minneapolis, says, you can't say that.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
FREY: Anybody who is using this as an -- using this as an opportunity to villainize our trans community, or any other community out there has lost their sense of common humanity. We should not be operating out of a place of hate for anyone. We should be operating from a place of love for our kids.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: I don't hate anyone who thinks they're trans, I feel sorry for them, but statistically, the trans population has been prone to violence. That's not villainizing, that's reality. And if you can't recognize reality, you're in danger.
We love the American people, especially American children, and if they're troubled and believe they're somehow a girl trapped in a boy's body, we want to get them help. We don't want to give them hormones and operate on them.
Society shouldn't be trying to produce more trans kids. We shouldn't be encouraging an emotional disorder or whatever this is, and doctors should stop profiting from it.
Great Britain ended child sex change surgeries. They said it is barbaric, and they're right.
And politicians should stop elevating the trans issue like it's the Civil Rights struggle of the 21st Century. You see it all over Minneapolis.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
FREY: Minneapolis will continue to be a safe haven.
For our trans community --
GOV. TIM WALZ (D-MN): For being a safe haven for transgender individuals.
KEITH ELLISON, MINNESOTA ATTORNEY GENERAL: We have sued them for gender affirming care. Yes, we are not going to scapegoat our transgender community.
LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR PEGGY FLANAGAN (D), MINNESOTA: When our children tell us who they are, it is our job as grown-ups to listen and to believe them.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: So when your nine-year-old tells you he's a horse, do you let him sleep out in the barn and eat hay? What are we doing here?
Just a few years ago, the psychiatric community classified transgenderism as a mental illness, then doctors went woke and removed it as a condition, and now millions of young Americans are identifying themselves as trans and getting high fives.
When someone has an illness, we should treat it instead of affirm it. We don't celebrate schizophrenia. We don't encourage depression.
Teenagers are confused. Sometimes these things are just a phase, and if they're not all right, then a grown man can wear a dress. If he wants to do that in America, he has that right. We're a pretty darn tolerant society, but the left is weaponizing trans kids and turning them into culture warriors, and they've been turned loose against the church, schools, and Trump.
You see it, I see it.
The trans clan has a militant wing, and it's out for blood. They're taking lives, defiling churches and freaking everybody out, and some politicians are doing more to protect shooters like Westman than soft targets like schools.
In 2023, private schools in Minnesota begged Governor Walz to fund more school safety. They told him it was an urgent and critical need. Minnesota had an $18 billion budget surplus, but the Governor didn't do it. Instead, he turned Minnesota into a trans sanctuary, and his Attorney General, Keith Ellison, sued Trump so they can keep castrating little boys.
Tim Walz failed. Our leaders keep failing us.
They failed us during COVID, on trade, on immigration. They say they care about kids, but they locked them down and oversaw an obesity and chronic disease epidemic, and now there's a growing trans epidemic, and they won't even admit it, just like crime. They created a crisis and then lie about it and blame you for not being compassionate, but their fake compassion is getting people killed.
Jamie Reed is a pediatric gender center whistleblower.
All right, Jamie, we don't know if this guy had any surgery or hormones. We don't know anything about that, but are you recognizing a pattern with these people?
JAMIE REED, PEDIATRIC GENDER CENTER WHISTLEBLOWER: Yes, absolutely, and you're correct. We don't know yet if this individual was yet prescribed or on any hormones. From the photo I've seen, I would speculate that he was not blocked at puberty, but what we know is that he was socially transitioned as a child, which is something that can lead directly into this radicalization that we're seeing in a lot of trans identified individuals.
WATTERS: You know, one of the lines is, you know, you have to transition these kids, because if you don't, they're going to commit violence on other people or on themselves. But we've seen a lot of instances where, after they're transitioned, they're committing acts of violence. Is there a connection?
REED: Yes. So what we see is that gender ideology itself, historically has not necessarily been a violent ideology, but what we have right now is an ideology that is preying on vulnerable young people, young people who often have serious comorbidities, and what happens is they are not getting the mental health care that they need, and instead, everybody is affirming and focusing on the trans identification.
This young man was suffering from multiple, probably, delusions, but it becomes really hard for anyone to pull that apart when you have a state that is affirming his delusion that he could somehow become a woman.
WATTERS: And his mother, the mother went to the court to get his name changed to Robin.
REED: I feel for these parents, so many parents with kids who are experiencing this distress are often also lied to. But you're correct, in this case, it does appear that the family itself had been going along and affirming this belief in this young man.
We think that even a social transition in young people basically put someone on a pathway that is going to lead directly to medicalization and directly to harm.
We see trans ideology as violence on the person and is harmful itself.
WATTERS: Well, they say that's compassionate. They say, you have to operate, you have to affirm, you have to transition this kid as fast as you can, or else you're a bigot.
REED: They do. They do. But right now, what we see is there is this huge disconnect between what the actual evidence says.
The evidence tells us. The scientific evidence is telling us that medically transitioning, socially transitioning young people does not have the benefit and only really has a severe risk profile. These are kids that are in -- they are unstable to begin with, and then we are taking this core instability and this core distress, and we're just layering on top of it more radicalized ideology.
WATTERS: So you were a whistleblower at one of these organizations. What did you see that sparked this awakening in you?
REED: Yes, so I actually participated in medicalizing young people for almost five years, and what I saw was that we were harming these kids. They were not getting better. Often, their mental health was getting worse. We were tearing apart families, and we also have to recognize that gender ideology tears apart other facets of our social -- of our society.
It tears at sports and families and safety for women and safety for families and kids. And so the ideology as a whole, to me, just became something that I felt like I was participating in harming the exact same patients that my job was supposed to be -- to protect, to make them better, I was making them worse.
WATTERS: Well, thank you for coming forward and thank you for enlightening us. It's a very complicated situation, and that really cleared it up. We appreciate it.
REED: Thank you for having me.
WATTERS: Host of "The Sage Steele Show," Sage Steele.
It's hard to process this. We've seen it now a couple times for a couple of years straight. When do you think society is going to wake up and say enough is enough?
SAGE STEELE, HOST, "THE SAGE STEELE PODCAST": You would think it. Have Been a long time ago.
Jesse, I lived in Connecticut during that Sandy Hook shooting that took place about an hour from my house, and I'll never forget that moment.
I think all of us will, unfortunately remember that and if that wasn't the moment to say, okay, we've got to do something, then I don't know what is.
Today is another reminder to me that, frankly, it's even bigger than the trans issue in my mind, Jesse. This is about evil. This is about good versus evil. And there are -- it's obviously that there's evil in the hearts of these people who are choosing to go in, premeditated and go in and kill young children, kill people.
Aside from that, it's mental health, right? Anybody who wants to go do something like this has issues, has problems, and there's no way those problems just surfaced today before the shooting. We saw the videos online. I forced myself to watch the 11-minute clip that was put out on X, and when you see him fumbling through dozens and dozens of bullets and guns and magazines, and of course, the letter that he wrote.
Mental health issues that the adults in the room, whether it's mothers, fathers, siblings, teachers, employers have chosen to ignore for many reasons, probably, but I would say number one, because of the fear that's been instilled in them to have these conversations with these kids. Obviously, the trans issue, to me, is a mental health issue as well. All of these things combined have led to another terrible day like today, but it is rooted in evil.
WATTERS: Yes, I saw the devil when I watched this video. I've never seen a more despicable human being watching this video, he is caressing bullets. The things that he talks about are just grotesque, and the kind of glee, the giggling is diabolical, and the fact that this guy was cruising through life, he has parents, he may have colleagues, he has neighbors, no one noticed that the devil was living right next door, that's insane to me. Where are we here?
STEELE: Yes, and again, I go back to 2012 because as soon as this happened today, I thought of the shooter there in Adam Lanza, who ended up, if you recall, he killed his mother before he went over to Sandy Hook school and shot up all those kids and took those innocent lives, and he had a long history of mental health issues.
The mother had an affinity for guns, and legally had all of them, but she kept them out knowing that her son had these mental health issues. So it does start at home. It does start with the parents and anybody else who notices. It as heartbreaking as it is to be a whistleblower on a loved one, don't we have an obligation to do that, not just for you and your family, but for everybody in society?
I'm heartbroken over it, as I know all of your viewers are as well. But we have to be accountable. And yes, the hatred that is being spewed by our leaders, by the Tim Walzes is of the world, Governor Walz there in Minneapolis, who also, not only makes it a safe haven for transgender people, that's wonderful, but let's focus on their mental health also, a city that tried to defund the police.
So there's a lot going on up there. It doesn't matter where it happens, though. The evil is there, the darkness is there, the mental health issues are there. I believe like you, it's not about the guns. It starts here and with adults and friends and everybody choosing to ignore and now look.
WATTERS: Yes, the family is the first line of defense, so we have to have a full investigation.
Sage Steele, thank you so much on this tragic night.
So does America kind of want a dictator?
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
WATTERS: President Trump's crime crackdown is getting results, even the Democrat mayor in D.C. is saying, gracias.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BOWSER: We greatly appreciate the surge of officers that enhance what MPD has been able to do in this city. We know that when carjackings go down, when the use of gun goes down, when homicide or robbery go down, neighborhoods feel safer and are safer.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: But other Democrats can't get the D-word out of their mouth.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
GOV. J.B. PRITZKER (D-IL): Ask if they want their neighborhoods turned into a war zone by a wannabe dictator.
MAYOR BRANDON JOHNSON (D), CHICAGO: They just want to play on people's fears and anxieties to seize more power for themselves.
REP. DEBBIE WASSERMAN SCHULTZ (D-FL): The President is going to march the National Guard into cities. That is the action. Those are the actions of an authoritarian.
KWAME RAOUL, ILLINOIS ATTORNEY GENERAL: It's another step towards authoritarianism that he's operating as a dictator.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: The D-word didn't work in November and now some fancy think tanks telling Democrats to knock it off.
"The firm advised that messaging around Trump's rising authoritarianism was highly unconvincing." You think?
Here's another phrase they should stop using, "Cashless bail." It's a criminal's dream come true.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I been in a DC jail six times for the same warrant. They never show up. D.C. Jail has to release me. They release me. It's the same thing every (bleep) time, the same thing, every time.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Democrats catch-and-release at the border and in the capital, but to them, crime is like long COVID, you just have to learn to live with it. In fact, crime is part of our treasured history.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. JAMIE RASKIN (D-MD): The military is not supposed to be used for ordinary law enforcement purposes. In D.C., he was talking about cleaning up the graffiti, and, you know, dealing with the blight of homelessness. Crime has always been part of our history, and yet, crime is down in D.C. for example, it's at a 30-year low.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: No, it's not. D.C. Police just got caught cooking the books, and they're under investigation. And racism has always been a part of our history, do Democrats just want to live with racism? I didn't think so.
It seems like the politicians who don't experience crime want to keep the crime in the Black neighborhoods. "Mr. Trump's loudest critics tend not to live in neighborhoods where gunfire is so common that you turn up the television volume to drown out the noise, and you sleep on the floor at night in the summer, because bullets sometimes come through walls."
CNN is walking around the South Side telling residents how to feel.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
AMEENAH HAQQUE, CHICAGO RESIDENT: The governor as well as the mayor, should be on board with it, just so we can get a bit more of security in Chicago, the way that we need.
WHITNEY WILD, CNN LAW ENFORCEMENT CORRESPONDENT: The crime has dropped since 2024. Do you feel like the city feels safer?
HAQQUE: No, not at all. No, especially with the police being defunded.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Here are the numbers CNN should take a look at, 81 percent of adults say crime is a major problem in large cities, and 55 percent support using the military or the Guard to help local police. Small business owners have been thrown to the wolves, and they're begging for help from anyone who will listen.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: The store has been vandalized before, with a bunch of teens running in, and then one of the staff members got hurt and injured as well.
People work hard for their business. Tired of kids looting, they are stealing every day. Even adults come here and steal, and they walk beside the kids, the kids stuff, stuff in their pockets. What type of parenting are you doing?
You know, if their parents can be accountable for them. I mean, the government need to step in.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: OutKick.com founder, Clay Travis.
Clay, what's going down faster crime or the Democrats?
CLAY TRAVIS, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CONTRIBUTOR: I've got to give Mayor Muriel Bowser a great deal of credit here, Jesse. I lived in Washington, D.C. for four years. You know, carjacking, she said at that press conference, are down 87 percent over last year compared to the prior year, down 45 percent on violent crime. Murders have plummeted. This is exactly what should happen, a partnership between a mayor who gets it and a President who definitely gets it that's designed to make everyone who lives in Washington, D.C., everybody who vacations, everybody who travels in for the day, safer than they otherwise would be.
I give President Trump credit here, and I think we should follow up what we are learning about how to drive down crime in Washington, D.C., Chicago, Baltimore, Memphis, Kansas City. You go out and look at all of these cities with huge crime rates, it's indefensible.
Jesse, I live in Nashville. You know, Memphis has more murders right now statistically than New York City. How in the world are we allowing this to happen? The people, you just showed it, 81 percent think crime is a problem and what needs to happen, White, Black, Asian and Hispanic, whoever the bad guys are, lock them up and let's drive down the rate of violent crime nationwide.
WATTERS: Isn't it amazing what this country is capable of when the parties work together?
TRAVIS: Yes.
WATTERS: I wish we could work together on this trans issue. Do you think finally we can come together and deal with it like adults instead of like celebrating this mental illness.
TRAVIS: Yes, look, this happened in Nashville a couple of years ago, where I live, a trans shooter. They hid her manifesto. She went in and killed a lot of kids at a Christian school, and now we had a guy who identified as a girl show up and kill innocent kids while they were sitting in their church pews.
This is unacceptable, and we need to start asking questions, what sort of drugs are these people on? Is it making them more violent? And let me say this, I think this is an important conversation we need to have.
Telling someone with a mental illness that you believe that they don't have a mental illness is not kind. If someone has schizophrenia, and you say, oh, I also hear the noises. I also see people that aren't there. If someone has an eating disorder, and they show up at a doctor, and the doctor says, you know what, you do, look better. You should get even skinnier. This is a national failure that we have allowed to take place, and unfortunately, mentally ill people, many of them trans, are being taken advantage of by our toxic empathy, and they are unfortunately acting out violently.
It's not a coincidence this happened in Nashville. It's not a coincidence this happened in Minneapolis. We need to confront it directly, and we need to stop it from ever happening again. It's time for a real address here.
WATTERS: You know, Clay, it is such a great point. Not only are we saying that there's nothing wrong with them, we're saying they're heroes. We're saying they're the Rosa Parks of gender ideology.
TRAVIS: Yes, that's right!
WATTERS: And they are combatants in a culture war against conservatives and bigots. It's -- honestly, it's weaponizing these kids and turning them into, like -- into hand grenades. And you wake up and you wonder, like, oh, why is there violence? Well, I think I know why.
TRAVIS: Any kid that is having this surgery, these treatments, it should be illegal, and the doctors performing these operations, they should be investigated and they should be prosecuted.
We are sterilizing kids all over this country, we are telling a 12-year-old who walks in and is going through early stages of puberty and feels uncomfortable and uncertain about their body, that they are right. We're telling parents, Jesse, think about this -- we're telling parents that if you don't affirm this, your kid is going to kill themselves and it's going to be your fault. It's unacceptable. We need to address it, and we need to address it now.
WATTERS: Yes, it's suicidal. It's like cultural suicide.
TRAVIS: It is.
WATTERS: All right, Clay, good to talk to you.
TRAVIS: Hey, appreciate you.
WATTERS: Donald Trump, Gavin Newsom and hand to hand combat.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
WATTERS: The Justice Department has opened an investigation into whether senior FBI officials covered up crimes committed by James Comey and Director of the CIA, John Brennan.
The DOJ is investigating if the FBI hid or secretly destroyed Russiagate documents. This comes after Kash Patel found thousands of docs inside burn bags hidden in a secret room. It's not just the FBI in hot water. President Trump is floating criminal charges for the Soros family.
"George Soros and his wonderful radical left son should be charged with RICO because of their support of violent protests. Soros and his group of psychopaths have caused great damage to our country. Be careful. We're watching you."
Soros' group denied they fund violent protests, and this is just the latest blow to Democrats' dark money machine. Bill Gates is pulling out. After giving $450 million to shady liberal organizations, Gates is saying, nomas, no money, no candidates and no Deep State. 2028 is going to be a tough year for Democrats.
Finally, it's over. Democrats wrapped up their summer intervention. Yesterday, they declared Jesus DEI. Today, they booked a woke Bishop.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DAUGHTRY: How long, oh Lord, how long? How long will our nation allow such hatred to reign unchecked?
How long, O Lord, how long must we labor under the weight of racism and sexism and homophobia which steals our breath and robs us of our joy?
How long, oh Lord How long must we witness our communities overtaken by occupying forces?
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Not even trans Jesus can resurrect the party. The DNC boss knows he's doomed. His pep talk sounded like an obituary.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
KEN MARTIN, DNC CHAIRMAN: We have over performed in every single election that's been on the ballot since Donald Trump was inaugurated. Let's get off our (bleep) and actually get in this fight. And everyone in this room is.
The American voters, they are sending us a message. They're with us. They're standing with us throughout this country right now, as we over perform in these elections.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Democrats are so lost, they're even plotting a mini convention to audition new talent before the midterms. This is the open convention that they swore they wanted last year until autopen screwed it up. Instead, Biden slapped the crown on the DEI hire.
Gone are the days of Pelosi cracking the whip. She's busy day trading and rehabbing her busted hip. Now, it's Hips Don't Lie Hakeem's House, and according to Charlamagne, he's running it like a synagogue.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Who's been your favorite guest?
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Oh gosh, I can't pick a favorite.
Well having the Speaker, Minority Speaker Hakeem, Jeffries --
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Charlamagne hates him.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: You do?
CHARLAMAGNE THA GOD, "THE BREAKFAST CLUB" HOST: I don't hate him. I just don't think he stands for anything.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Well --
CHARLAMAGNE THA GOD: I think that he's -- I call him APAC Shakur.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: The rest of the field wants a Royal Rumble.
Maryland Governor Wes Moore is making some noise. Wes says he's the chosen one, because Trump thinks he's cute.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
GOV. WES MOORE (D-MD): The President seems to be obsessed with me. You know, today he called me a beauty, and when I first met him, he just talked about how I was a good looking guy. And now he just continues to make a make -- make statements that are just flat out false about our state's largest city.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: But Trump's not eyeing Wes Moore, his eyes are glued on Gavin's hands.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: Gavin, I know him very well. He's incompetent. He's a nice guy. Looks good. Hi everybody. How are you doing? He's got some strange hand action going. I don't know what the hell is his problem. It's a little weird, to be honest. There is a little something shaky going on there.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Gavin's hands are getting into Tampon territory. They're moving faster than Hunter's pulse at the Chateau Marmont. But Gav is not just getting handsy, he is jumping the '28 ladder.
Newsom just doubled his digits for '28 and is riding Kamala's bumper hard. Let the fun begin. Gavin thinks he's hotter than when his whole state went up in flames, POLITICO wasn't convinced. They asked him tonight, "Governor, how are you still breathing?"
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Last summer, folks were writing your POLITICO obituary.
GOV. GAVIN NEWSOM (D-CA): Luckily, I don't read obituaries, so I missed it.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: After proving he's got a pulse, Gavin said Trump drains your white blood cells.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
NEWSOM: Been a hell of a half-decade, all that stacking of stress, all the anxiety that all of us have faced. And then, of course, Trump 2.0 depending on which side of the aisle you're on, it -- you know, it impacts the immune system.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Did a man just admit he has anxiety from another man? That's weird.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
NEWSOM: This last year, these last six-seven months, this is something altogether different and I'm on the other side of any kind of hesitancy that I had prior. I'm on the other side of giving a damn about people's feelings about this moment, I will express myself more clearly and more concisely, because I see the threats in very vivid terms, in ways I never saw before.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: The original Wolf of Wall Street, Jordan Belfort.
All right, Jordan, what kind of guy is Gavin Newsom?
JORDAN BELFORT, AUTHOR, "THE WOLF OF INVESTING": Well, as an ex-California resident who fled from there because of, you know, high taxes, where they're doing nothing with your money. And by the way, I did see those clips on X with the hand gestures. It's weird. It's like a timeshare salesman stuff, right?
So the guy is, pretty shifty, but seriously, I watched him literally take, you know, a great state, really a great state, greatest weather, great economy, and he just destroyed it. I mean, literally, budget deficits, tent cities everywhere, and now he wants to be president? It is like the definition of failing upward. I mean, seriously.
So, you know, he's a strange guy, because, like, he has no self-awareness. He is out there, like he's, you know, the next great thing, and look what's happened to the state of California. People are leaving there. You know, the taxes, I think the highest or second highest in the country and what really burned me up was, like, what they were not doing with the money.
So, you know, Gavin Newsom, I don't know, like, for me, it doesn't really matter, like, who is going to be next, you know, candidate for the Democrats, because they're going to just get a picket. They don't really have, you know, mini conventions. It's always ordained by the super delegates. They choose who they want. And really that person is going to be whoever says, I'm going to toe the party line. I'm going to do what the powers that be say I should do. And that's the problem with the Democratic Party, other than that their policy suck is that they never actually have conventions. They're always picked beforehand.
The last time was in 2015 seriously, with Hillary. And even then, by the way, they iced out Bernie. So go back even further, Obama. So again, you know, Gavin, I don't think he's going anywhere fast.
WATTERS: So are the guys in the back-smoke filled room going to tap a straight White guy who has anxiety?
BELFORT: Listen, you know, I don't really know exactly what goes on in these smoke-filled rooms, but it hasn't been working too well for them. No, really, they had Biden in there. Excuse me.
WATTERS: No, you're right. I mean --
BELFORT: I'm sorry, I heard somebody else.
WATTERS: They need to do that in the open.
BELFORT: So with Biden, I mean, listen, they put someone who was literally senile into the Oval Office, and the country went down the tubes really quickly. Then they decided to take Kamala after that. I mean, I think it's time for the Democrats to stop the smoke filled rooms and let the people actually pick who they want to pick.
And by the way, they really need to focus on getting some policies that make sense, not focusing on like not getting people to deported to Uganda like this Garcia guy, that's the hill they want to die on. They want to really pick issues that matter to the people, not the nonsense they're always talking about.
WATTERS: All right, well, you made a lot of sense, except when you said you've never been in a smoke-filled room, that I do not believe. The Wolf of Wall Street clean as a whistle. We love you, Jordan.
WATTERS: So can Taylor Swift's engagement make you gay? Lydia has the answer.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
WATTERS: All right, we've got Watters' Cooler. Let's bring in "New York Post" columnist, Lydia Moynihan. How are we doing, Lydia?
LYDIA MOYNIHAN, FINANCIAL CORRESPONDENT, "THE NEW YORK POST": Great. Better for being here.
WATTERS: Okay.
MOYNIHAN: Better for Taylor Swift being engaged.
WATTERS: Oh, you are so excited, I can tell.
A lot of people are excited about the engagement. Some a little too excited, especially the guys.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Taylor Swift is engaged!
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: She's engaged. She is engaged!
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Oh my God. What the hell is happening? What the hell is happening right now.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We have a Biochem midterm today, but Taylor and Travis just got engaged. Class is canceled. Get out of here. We've got to go.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: PRIMETIME guest Gad Saad said, you know him, you love him. He said this, "If you're a man who exhibits great excitement because Taylor Swift and Travis Kelce are getting married, you are a woman." Does getting excited as a guy over the engagement make you gay?
MOYNIHAN: It's a little weird. I feel like, for most men, right, there's that group chat with their best friends, and they maybe find out that their best friend got married, like, months after the fact, or because he's like, hey, bro, come to my bachelor party. But it's like, men just don't have these conversations about those kinds of things.
Like, a man isn't going to wake up for the royal wedding at 4:00 A.M. and bake scones. He's excited about a princess's dreams coming true. Like that's just -- it is --
WATTERS: So straight men are not excited about this.
MOYNIHAN: No.
WATTERS: Okay.
MOYNIHAN: No.
WATTERS: Some other guys are, though.
MOYNIHAN: Maybe, unless they're trying to impress a girl or seem relatable.
WATTERS: Are you impressed by a guy if he seems excited about the engagement?
MOYNIHAN: Yes. No! The videos you showed, the screaming from the top of -- like, I was excited, but not screaming from the top of a building. I don't get it.
WATTERS: Okay, you can't scream louder than the girls.
English Ellen may have escaped abroad, but her problems are following her across the pond. A former cameraman saying Ellen hated men. Men who worked for Ellen would get fired, left and right, and one of her former writers is talking, too.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
FITZSIMMONS: She was rough. She was the C-word.
Like, I won four Emmys on the show, but like that made things bad. That made her start to be mean. Because she was back on top. There was these first time writers, who were -- they used to cry. There was a lot of crying in the hallways.
SAM MORRIL, "WE MIGHT BE DRUNK PODCAST" HOST: Are you scared to talk about it that she might hear this and come attack you?
FITZSIMMONS: I think she's out of the country.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: All right, so Ellen was like Mussolini.
MOYNIHAN: The fact that she moved to England because of Donald Trump, I think, could be construed as another one of his great accomplishments --
WATTERS: It is.
MOYNIHAN: -- as President. No, I'm over this idea of a toxic workplace, right? Like that was so 2018, right?
WATTERS: Right.
MOYNIHAN: I'm sorry if you're crying in a workplace, get a new job, move on or grow up. But like I don't --
WATTERS: Right.
MOYNIHAN: People are mean in the workplace, that's part of life. That's part of being an adult. Like that doesn't constitute trauma --
WATTERS: You like getting yelled at?
MOYNIHAN: No, but that's the reality. Like, I don't think there's workplaces where people hold hands and sing "Kumbaya" and if they do, I think that company is probably going to go bankrupt.
WATTERS: Right.
MOYNIHAN: So if you're in Hollywood, you kind of know what you're signing up for, and it's not for somebody to tell you how wonderful you are.
WATTERS: Right. And you think the #MeToo Movement you said in the green room was overblown.
MOYNIHAN: That's a different thing. Making someone cry is not the same.
WATTERS: Okay, Lydia, you're a real nit-picker, but we like you. Thank you. Come again.
More PRIMETIME. Straight ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
WATTERS: All right, Fox Shop, 20 percent off Labor Day sale. We've got you guys covered. Look at this. We've got shirts, we've got bags with my name on it. We've got mugs. We've got doggy bowls. Licky. Licky. We've got doggy leashes, freaky, freaky And we've got some drink thing that would probably cost $19.99. Not made in China. It's made in China.
Time for texts.
David from Tamaqua, Pennsylvania: Have you ever made Johnny cry?
I don't think so. And if he did, he did it behind my back, where men should do it.
Shelly from San Antonio: You can fight it, Jesse, but eventually those bricks are going white.
I'm Watters, this is my world.
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Document-Type: Show

Publication-Type: Transcript

Transcript: 082701cb.271

Subject: NEGATIVE NEWS (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SCHOOL SAFETY & SECURITY (84%); CRIME, LAW ENFORCEMENT & CORRECTIONS (90%); SAFETY (84%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (85%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (64%); US PRESIDENTS (65%); WEAPONS & ARMS (87%); RELIGION (71%); CHILDREN, ADOLESCENTS & TEENS (87%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (73%); NEGATIVE PERSONAL NEWS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); FIREARMS (72%); GUN VIOLENCE (90%); COUPS (90%); TERRORISM (64%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); POLICE FORCES (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (73%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (71%); SHOOTINGS (90%); FEDERAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (86%); SAFETY, ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (84%); TERRORISM & COUNTERTERRORISM (60%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); Shooting (%); Deaths (%); Children (%); Terrorism (%); Gender Relations (%); Sexuality (%); Crimes (%); Donald Trump (%); Government (%); Politics (%); Russiagate (%); Investigation (%)

Company:  FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (95%)

Organization: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%)

Industry: NAICS516120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (95%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (95%); PODCASTING (50%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (73%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (73%)

Person: TRAVIS KELCE (88%); DONALD TRUMP (89%)

Geographic: WASHINGTON DC, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); UNITED STATES (94%)

Load-Date: August 28, 2025


End of Document
