


USA Today Online
September 4, 2025 7:34 PM EST


Copyright 2025 Gannett Media Corp  All Rights Reserved
Length: 2822 words
Byline: C. A. Bridges, USA TODAY NETWORK - Florida
Body


Florida is poised to become the first state to drop all vaccine requirements, including immunizations for schools. 
At a Sept. 3 press conference in Valrico in Hillsborough County, Dr. Joseph Ladapo, Florida's surgeon general, and Gov.  said that .
“Every last one of them is wrong and drips with disdain and slavery,” Ladapo said. “Who am I to tell you what your child should put in their body? I don’t have that right. Your body is a gift from God.” 
Ladapo, the state's top public health official, said that he would repeal about a half-dozen vaccine requirements controlled by the Florida Department of Health and DeSantis and that the Florida Legislature would work to repeal other vaccinations  such as polio, diphtheria, rubeola, rubella, pertussis, mumps, tetanus and other communicable diseases.
A 2024 study showed that  over the last 50 years and access to vaccines brought those rates 40% lower than they would have been otherwise. 
Leaders of the American Medical Association, the American Academy of Pediatrics and other health professionals were  against the move by Florida leaders.
Sandra Adamson Fryhofer, a member of the AMA Board of Trustees, said the group “strongly opposes Florida’s plan to end all vaccine mandates, including those required for school attendance.”
“This unprecedented rollback would undermine decades of public health progress and place children and communities at increased risk for diseases such as measles, mumps, polio, and chickenpox resulting in serious illness, disability, and even death,” said Fryhofer, a board-certified physician of internal medicine. 
“While there is still time, we urge Florida to reconsider this change to help prevent a rise of infectious disease outbreaks that put health and lives at risk.”
Florida seeing drop in vaccinations, rise in preventable diseases
Vaccination rates have dropped in Florida as the anti-vaccine movement has picked up steam. Last year, the number of  in Florida soared eight time the cases compared to the year before as the vaccination rate dropped below herd immunity levels. 
A measles outbreak in Miami-Dade resulted in nine infections in 2024. with  of the highly infectious and potentially fatal airborne disease in the state reported so far this year. Federal and medical professional guidelines recommend that unvaccinated children in schools where cases are reported stay home for three weeks. 
Ladapo  and said that the Florida Department of Health was "deferring to parents or guardians to make decisions about school attendance."
When will Florida end its vaccination requirements?
Governor DeSantis Announces Florida MAHA Commission and Medical Freedom Protections 
— Ron DeSantis (@GovRonDeSantis)

No timeline was announced at the press conference, but Ladapo said some unspecified vaccine requirements could end soon.
"We actually have the ability to start that process with what government folks call 'rules,'" he said. "So the Florida Department of Health, we have some, some rules that we promulgated, not me, predecessors, that include, you know, a handful, maybe a half a dozen, vaccines that that are mandated in Florida. So those are going to be gone, for sure."
Ladapo said the FDOH would work with DeSantis and lawmakers to "get rid of the rest of it."
"We need to end it. It's the right thing to do," he said.
Who is Dr. Joseph Ladapo, Florida Surgeon General?
Joseph Abiodun Ladapo, 46, is a native of Nigeria and the son of a microbiologist who immigrated to the U.S. with his family in the 1980s.
Ladapo earned a Bachelor of Arts in chemistry from Wake Forest University and an M.D. and a Ph.D in Health Policy from Harvard University. He worked at different hospitals in New York City and served as a professor at the NYU School of Medicine and a staff fellow with the Food and Drug Administration before becoming a researcher at the David Geffen School of Medicine at . Ladapo is married, with three young sons.
Ladapo's primary , according to his previous online "about" page with UCLA Health, included assessing the cost-effectiveness of diagnostic technologies and reducing the population burden of cardiovascular disease. 
Despite his lack of specialization in infectious disease, he also became prominent in the movement against the mainstream medical community's positions on treatments, vaccines and masking. Ladapo wrote editorials for the Wall Street Journal,  and the New York Daily News on the topic, saying masks have “,” despite studies to the contrary, and recommending treatments such as the antimalarial drug  and the anti-parasitic drug , which have since .
Ladapo has been associated with extremist groups such as America's Frontline Doctors and Tea Party Patriots Action and was a signatory of the , which criticized most pandemic mitigation measures and instead recommended allowing people to be infected to create a natural, or "herd," immunity, an idea  in his first term but considered dangerous by researchers and the larger medical community. 
Supporters have said he is an intelligent and credentialed scientist and fully qualified. Some of Ladapo's previous colleagues at UCLA have expressed  at his views after the pandemic began.
When did Joseph Ladapo become Florida's Surgeon General?
In 2020, then-Florida Surgeon General Scott Rivkees said in public that to fight the growing dangers of the COVID-19 pandemic Florida . 
This conflicted with DeSantis' growing message of opening up Florida and getting children back into schools, which turned into claims of governmental oppression and speeches in favor of personal freedom. The state's surgeon general  for months, during a global pandemic, before Rivkes finally . DeSantis  with Ladapo, who had  by the University of Florida College of Medicine, two events that DeSantis said at the time .
That employment was later  with the help of , resulting in the governor-appointed Florida Board of Medicine's approval  rather than the usual 2-6 months. Ladapo was reportedly  the UF hiring process. He also received , making him one of the  Florida government employees.
Ladapo was quick to support DeSantis' views and provided his own on social media, at public events and   , claiming there was a concerted effort to hide stories of people with adverse reactions to vaccines, accusing the government in general and the former director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, Dr. Anthony Fauci, in particular of defrauding the American people, and urging Floridians to follow their intuition over medical professionals.
“Just check in with your gut. Who do you think you can trust, and go with those individuals,” Ladapo told First Class Fatherhood podcast host Alec Lace. 
Dr. Joseph Ladapo's controversy timeline in Florida
September 2021:, Ladapo signed  allowing parents to decide if children exposed to people who tested positive for COVID had to quarantine or if they could go to school, eliminating the previous requirement for exposed students to quarantine off campus for at least four days.  during a press conference. 
October 2021: at a meeting with Democratic state Sen. Tina Polsky even after she told him she had a serious medical condition (later confirmed as breast cancer) and was at a higher risk for serious complications from COVID. After she asked him to leave and word got out, a firestorm erupted with Democrats and members of the medical community castigating him for endangering her life. Ladapo  nearly a week later saying he was saddened by her diagnosis but didn't think he could communicate effectively with a mask on.
Ladapo , promoting monoclonal antibody treatment, supporting the governor's views on blocking vaccine and mask mandates and . Critics accused him of  that led to people being hesitant or afraid of vaccines.
December 2021: The Florida Department of Health  that said he violated state medical laws by publicly casting doubts about COVID vaccines and promoting unproven treatments. Florida saw 2,933,782 cases of COVID-19 and 23,352 deaths in 2021, compared to 1,317,300 cases and 39,877 deaths in 2020.
January 2022: before the Senate Health Policy Committee after what they said was a lack of honest answers about his qualifications and the current state of the pandemic during a .
At a press conference that month, DeSantis and Ladapo told Floridians who weren't showing symptoms . “If you don’t have symptoms, you are not a case," Ladapo said despite CDC guidance saying that asymptomatic people with COVID can still pass it on to more vulnerable people and they may still develop debilitating  themselves weeks later.
February 2022: During his confirmation hearing Ladapo dodged questions about vaccine effectiveness, how much time he actually spent at UF, whether he had been vaccinated himself, and his connections with "fringe medical group" . He was ultimately .
April 2022: Ladapo's FDOH  by an Australian pediatrician to support . The pediatrician, Dr. Ken Pang, strongly objected to the medical board, saying his research was misrepresented and showed exactly the opposite. "To be seeing the research we've done being utilized in this way — I was just dismayed by that,” .
June 2022: DeSantis and the FDOH, under Ladapo,  under five when they became available, the only U.S. state to do so, citing the lack of need and the risks. Ladapo appeared before Congress to defend the state's decision and said the .
October 2022: Ladapo urged men  because of the "abnormally high risk of cardiac-related death among men in this age group," citing  from the FDOH. The move prompted a backlash from doctors, researchers and the federal government. At the time, Florida was  for the third month in a row.
January 2023: A task force of UF medical school doctors concluded that the FDOH recommendation against COVID vaccines for young men was of and that Ladapo cherry-picked data to support his stance. Politico went further and, after examining different drafts of the analysis, reported that  to remove data that contradicted his views. Ladapo has denied this.
March 2023: In response to a letter from Ladapo demanding answers based on his own research on vaccine safety, the  disproportionally focusing on the small number of adverse effects in the studies of 13 billion COVID shots given around the world while ignoring the number of people the vaccines have saved. "Unfortunately, the misinformation about COVID-19 vaccine safety has caused some Americans to avoid getting the vaccines they need to be up to date," .
April 2023: The FDOH under Ladapo  to the federal government
September 2023: Ladapo recommended against  getting the new COVID-19 vaccine booster the FDA approved to combat new, more infectious variants, directly contradicting CDC guidance. He claimed that the mRNA boosters altered human DNA, which the  and  have said is false.
November 2023: After a two-year battle over COVID public records, the  a  about withholding COVID data and released  on the state's  site. However, the    cumulative totals, percentages, new case positivity, data on booster doses and overviews that made it easier to see trends. Cases in Florida hit a new high of 3,071,567 in 2022 but the death rate dropped, with 21,320 deaths reported. 
January 2024: Ladapo made headlines again by "" because he said he didn't receive an adequate response from the FDA about the safety of vaccines. Meanwhile, Florida was seeing  and hospitalizations.
February 2024: After six children at Manatee Baty Elementary School in Westin caught measles,  to parents saying it was "normally recommended" for unvaccinated children who have not previously had the disease to be kept home for three weeks "because of the high likelihood" they would get infected. But he also said the state would not mandate such a move, saying the Florida Department of Health was "deferring to parents or guardians to make decisions about school attendance."
Measles is considered  infections for humans, according to Dr. Aileen Marty, a professor at Florida International University and an expert in infectious disease and disaster medicine. If a person with measles comes in contact with a group of unvaccinated people, there is a 90% chance of the unvaccinated person becoming ill, according to the . 
September 2024: Florida pediatricians reported that vaccination levels in the state are , increasing the risk of outbreaks of diseases that are otherwise preventable. Ladapo issued a statement , using the same anti-mRNA arguments the FDA rebutted the year before.
October 2024: The FDOH under Ladapo  to at least two television stations over what it called misrepresentations of the state's abortion laws in a political ad for a constitutional amendment. The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) under former President Joe Biden called the letter a "flagrant abuse of power" that "must be rejected." The group behind the amendment filed , accusing him of violating its First Amendment rights.
November 2024: Ladapo asked Florida residents to call their legislators and demand them to , saying the practice is tantamount to "public health malpractice." U.S. health experts strongly disagreedm but several cities ended the practice and the  in 2025.
March 2025: In a press conference  in Florida in 225, Ladapo reiterated that measles vaccines are available for children, but decisions about whether to give a child the vaccine, or whether to send an unvaccinated child to school, should be left to parents. As of Aug. 30, six cases have been reported in the state, according to .
April 2025: Ladapo speaks at a  in Sarasota denouncing Dr. Anthony Fauci, the former director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases who was a key member of the White House Coronavirus Task Force.
Floridians have the freedom to make informed health choices. I support the decision to consume raw milk when sought for potential health benefits and protective factors. Be aware of your source and know the risks. 
— Joseph A. Ladapo, MD, PhD (@FLSurgeonGen)

August 2025: A few days after 21 people were sickened (six of them under age 10) and seven people were hospitalized with severe complications after , Ladapo said that "Floridians have the freedom to make informed health choices" and that . Human consumption of raw milk, which has not been heated to neutralize harmful bacteria, is legal in Florida but selling it for human consumption is not.
This article originally appeared on Sarasota Herald-Tribune: 
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Web Publication

Journal Code: 666052891

Subject: WHOOPING COUGH (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); PROFESSIONAL WORKERS (77%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (72%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (91%); VACCINATION & IMMUNIZATION (91%); MUMPS (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); VACCINES (97%); CHILDREN, ADOLESCENTS & TEENS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); TETANUS (78%); DISEASE IMMUNITY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); HEALTH CARE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); MANDATORY VACCINATIONS (91%); RUBELLA (73%); ANTI-VACCINE MOVEMENT (78%); CHICKEN POX (78%); INTERNAL MEDICINE (64%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); COMMUNICABLE DISEASE CONTROL (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); RESPIRATORY DISORDERS & INJURIES (73%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (66%); GOVERNMENT BODIES & OFFICES (74%); MEASLES (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH (90%); SCHOOL ATTENDANCE (78%); HEALTH CARE PROFESSIONALS (89%); SCHOOL VACCINATION & IMMUNIZATION (92%)

Organization: SURGEON GENERAL (93%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (55%); AMERICAN ACADEMY OF PEDIATRICS (55%)

Industry: PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (91%); VACCINATION & IMMUNIZATION (91%); VACCINES (97%); HEALTH CARE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); MANDATORY VACCINATIONS (91%); ANTI-VACCINE MOVEMENT (78%); INTERNAL MEDICINE (64%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE PROFESSIONALS (89%); SCHOOL VACCINATION & IMMUNIZATION (92%)

Person: RON DESANTIS (79%)

Geographic: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (99%); AFRICA (84%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); NIGERIA (79%); Florida & New York; United States & Nigeria; Americas, Northern America; Africa, Western Africa

Load-Date: September 10, 2025


End of Document
